---
title: Bandit Level 5 -> Level 6
date: 2025-05-22 11:22:22 +/-0500
categories: [wargames]
tags: [overthewire, bandit, linux]
---

### Goal
> The password for the next level is stored in a file somewhere under the **inhere** directory and has all of the following properties: human-readable, 1033 bytes in size, not executable.

### Solution
Starting out, let's look at the files we have in the given directory:

```
bandit5@bandit:~/inhere$ ls
maybehere00  maybehere03  maybehere06  
maybehere09  maybehere12  maybehere15  
maybehere18  maybehere01  maybehere04  
maybehere07  maybehere10  maybehere13  
maybehere16  maybehere19  maybehere02  
maybehere05  maybehere08  maybehere11  
maybehere14  maybehere17
```

That's a lot of folders! If we were to check each by hand, it would take a long time. Luckily there's a command in bash we can use to automate this: `find`. Here's a couple examples of how we can use find.

```
tldr find

# ---Output---
# - Find empty (0 byte) files and delete them:
#   find root_path -type f -empty -delete
# - Run a command for each file (use {} to access the filename):
#   find root_path -name '*.ext' -exec wc -l {} \;
```

This shows the format we need to run a `find` command, particularly the order of arguments and how to look for regular files (`-type f`). Another interesting thing to note is that we can run other commands on the results of `find` using the flag `-exec other_command {} \;`. Here the brackets will substitute in the filenames of any matches we get with `find`. This is cool, but it doesn't exactly solve our challenge yet. We're looking for a file with the following properties: human-readable, 1033 bytes in size, and non executable. 

While the built-in manual can be a lot of text, it does have useful information. After a quick glance at the manual, `find` does include a method to check the size of files. We can specify different size units, but here we're looking at bytes specifically. Since we need a file with 1033 bytes in size we can use the following argument: `-size 1033c`. 

```
man find

# ---Output---
# -size n[cwbkMG]
# File  uses  less than, more than or exactly n units of space,
# rounding up.  The following suffixes can be used:
# `c'    for bytes
# ...
```

Next we need the file to not be executable. The command has a built in flag to check for if a file *is* executable, but not the inverse.

```
man find | grep executable

# ---Output---
# -executable
#  Matches files which are executable and directories 
#  which are searchable
```

But there's a solution! We can invert any flag using the `!` option. Using the previous flag, we can look for *non-executable* files with `! -executable`.

```
man find | grep !

# ---Output---
# ! expr True if expr is false.
# find /sbin /usr/sbin -executable \! -readable -print

```

Lastly, `find` does include a method to check if a file is readable. However this is just checking if a file has read permissions set and not what we need.

```
man find | grep readable

# ---Output---
# -readable
# Matches  files  which are readable by the current user.
```

Double-checking with another search, there doesn't look like a way we can look for a human-readable file specifically.

```
man find | grep human

# ---Output---
# 
```

But remember the example commands we saw earlier? We can run any other command within `find` on its matches. We also learned how to find human-readable files in the previous level by looking for ASCII data using the `file` command. We can run `file` on `find`'s matches by doing the following: `-exec file {} \;`.  

Putting this all together, we can make a whole command that searches for all the criteria we need. It looks scary at first, but each flag can be broken down into simpler parts.


```bash
find . -type f -size 1033c ! -executable -exec file {} \;

# ---Output---
# ./maybehere07/.file2: ASCII text, with very long lines (1000)
```

Running the command returns one resulting file, which contained the password!

Here's another breakdown of which flags we used with the `find` command:

| Functionality              | Argument         |
| -------------------------- | ---------------- |
| Search files               | find             |
| From the current directory | .                |
| Look at only normal files  | -type f          |
| Files with 1033 bytes      | -size 1033c      |
| Not executable             | ! -executable    |
| Look for human readable    | -exec file {} \; |

### Summary
Here we learned about useful command `find` which we can use to search for files on a machine. We also looked at how to look for command options that can be helpful in specifying the behavior of a command. For this challenge we found a file lost in one of eighteen folders that had a specific size and specific properties all using one command and a few relevant flags.
