---
title: Bandit Level 6 -> Level 7
date: 2025-05-22 11:23:22 +/-0500
categories: [wargames]
tags: [overthewire, bandit, linux]
---

### Goal
> The password for the next level is stored **somewhere on the server** and has all of the following properties: owned by user bandit7, owned by group bandit6, 33 bytes in size.

### Solution
Similar to the previous level, we are looking for a file with specific parameters. Except this time the file can be anywhere on the server. The Linux [filesystem](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/linux-file-hierarchy-structure/) is built like a tree top down starting from the `/` root directory where all other folder reside in. 

Last time we used `.` (the current directory) as the starting point for `find` but we can use `/` (the root directory) to search for all files instead.

We have a couple of new parameters to search for, which luckily `find` has flags for: `-user` and `-group`. Like the previous stage we can look for a specific number of bytes using `-size c`. Putting this together we have:

```bash
$ find / -type f -user bandit7 -group bandit6 -size 33c

# ---Output---
# find: ‘/root’: Permission denied
# find: ‘/proc/tty/driver’: Permission denied
# find: ‘/proc/1219373/fdinfo/5’: No such file or directory
# find: ‘/boot/lost+found’: Permission denied
# ...
```

What's with all these errors? Since we check all the files on the machine, we are bound to get a few `Permission denied` messages. To get rid of the error messages and only view the matching files we can redirect [STDERR](https://www.howtogeek.com/435903/what-are-stdin-stdout-and-stderr-on-linux/). To do so we can append `2> /dev/null` at the end of our command. This gives us:

```bash
$ find / -type f -user bandit7 -group bandit6 -size 33c 2> /dev/null

# ---Output---
# /var/lib/dpkg/info/bandit7.password
```

And it worked! This gives us one match, which contains the next password.

Another cool trick I learned while writing this is to use `cat $(!!)`, which gets replaced by the output of the last command. This makes it easier to read the file output by `find`.

```bash
bandit6@bandit:~$ cat $(!!)

# ---Output---
# cat $(find / -type f -user bandit7 -group bandit6 -size 33c 2> /dev/null)
# mor...
```

### Summary
Here we solved a problem similar to the previous challenge and learned a few new flags for the `find` command to look for the owning users and groups of a file. We also encountered a new problem where we get a ton of error messages blocking us from viewing the output of command. To overcome this we can use the standard [file descriptors](https://www.howtogeek.com/435903/what-are-stdin-stdout-and-stderr-on-linux/) to redirect error messages to the file `/dev/null` which just deletes whatever gets sent to it. 

A little bit more about file descriptors, there are three main ones. These include input `STDIN`, output `STDOUT`, and error `STDERR`. The input is typically what we enter into the machine from our keyboard. Output is usually what we see in the terminal after running a command. Lastly, error is output specific to error messages like we saw above. If we redirect `STDERR` then only `STDOUT` will be displayed in the terminal, leaving us with only the command output and not the errors related to running the command. 
