---
title: Bandit Level 8 -> Level 9
date: 2025-05-23 12:15:15 +/-0500
categories: [wargames]
tags: [overthewire, bandit, linux]
---

### Goal
> The password for the next level is stored in the file **data.txt** and is the only line of text that occurs only once

### Solution
To find the line that only occurs once, we can use the command `uniq` which displays only only the unique lines within a file. We can see a few examples of how to use `uniq` by using `tldr uniq`:

```bash
$ tldr uniq
# - Display number of occurrences of each line along with that line:
#    sort {{path/to/file}} | uniq -c
```

One thing to note about `uniq` is that it only looks at consecutive occurs of lines to determine uniqueness. This is why the example above uses `sort` first to make sure all duplicate lines are consecutive before running `uniq`. Another thing we can do is to use the `uniq -c` flag which counts the occurs of each unique line. Running this on the bandit server gives us this:

```bash
bandit8@bandit:~$ sort data.txt | uniq -c
#     10 0lLAU8Hx0a5E8URNEITfTIe9sy6tcpeE
#     10 0oTVZsmZ2OmngEgPis8LloSSnuBmm7t9
#     10 11RbnkUhGZG3V5XHw9YBKPWcdZTQrYSQ
#     10 3M5U6xE6bEuGjktQvDD4eyHnW3bwvCkj
#     10 3WrYuQdo7JuGsvyB8hRss8A1uKcda2q4
```

This worked, but we can make it better! Notice how the number of occurrences isn't sorted? We can append another call to `sort` at the end of our command to make it easier to find the line with only one occurrence. 

```bash
bandit8@bandit:~$ sort data.txt | uniq -c | sort -k 1 -r
#      1 4CKM...
#     10 ZoQXvA7JpWaVsWZp2KdXwVEP7OFjPCbG
```

Here I used the flags `sort -k 1 -r` to sort the output of `uniq` based on the first column (`-k 1`) and then reverse the order of results (`-r`) to show the lowest number of occurrences first.

### Summary
For this challenge we put together two separate commands to combine their functionality. This is one of the strengths of the command line! We found the line that only occurs once in the file by first sorting the contents with `sort` and then counting the number of times each unique line occurs with `uniq -c`. 
